Document issue & PR templates (#306)
hexatomic/hexatomic: docs/dev/src/maintenance/repository/templates.md

# Template files

Template files can be used to customize the GitHub repository to some extent.
The Hexatomic repository uses two different template types:

1. Issue templates
2. A pull request template

> These templates are text files in the `.github/` directory that are formatted with Markdown, and may have a [YAML](https://yaml.org/) frontmatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These templates are text files in the `.github/` directory that are formatted with Markdown, and may have a [YAML](https://yaml.org/) front matter.
```
At least that's what [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_design#Front_matter), [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/front%20matter) and several English (GB) - German dictionaries are using (Cambridge Dictionary somehow does not have this entry and I won't buy a subscription to the Oxford Dictionary just to win an argument :wink:  )

You can learn more about issue templates and pull request templates from the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/about-issue-and-pull-request-templates).

The templates contain the predefined contents of the initial issue comment, or the initial pull request comment.

> They may contain checklists, text sections, bullet lists, etc., that work as "form elements" the user is aksed to complete.

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
They may contain checklists, text sections, bullet lists, etc., that work as "form elements" the user is asked to complete.
```

Further instructions for users are included as `<!-- HTML comments -->`.

## Issue templates

You can find the issue templates in `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/`.
GitHub will use the contents of this directory to determine the way that new issues are created.

The Hexatomic repository has two issue templates, one for bug reports ([`.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md`]()), and one for feature requests ([`.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md`]()).
Therefore, when you create a new issue, you are being asked which type of issue you want to create: a bug report, or a feature request.

> The names and descriptions of the options come from the YAML frontmatter of the different issue template files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The names and descriptions of the options come from the YAML front matter of the different issue template files.
```

![The user is presented with a choice of issue templates when creating a new issue.](template-choice.png)

On a side note, if there is only one template per template type (issue/pull request), no name and description is needed, and the single file will automatically be used.

Once you choose between issue types, a new issue will be created for you to edit.
The editor will be pre-populated with the contents of the respective Markdown file.

> Additionally, the frontmatter of the respective Markdown file determines some other values for the newly created issue, for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the front matter of the respective Markdown file determines some other values for the newly created issue, for example
```

- the name of the template (shown in the issue choice dialogue);
- the description of the template (shown in the issue choice dialogue)
- the title of the newly created issue

> - A list of labels that will be assigned to the newly creted issue

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
- A list of labels that will be assigned to the newly created issue
```

- A list of assignees that the newly created issue will be assigned to.

> Below is an example for the frontmatter of the bug report template. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example for the front matter of the bug report template. 
```

> The triple hyphens define a section of frontmatter in YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The triple hyphens define a section of front matter in YAML.
```

```yaml
---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve Hexatomic.
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''
---
```

> This frontmatter, together with the Markdown body text of the template creates a pre-populated new issue as in the following figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This front matter, together with the Markdown body text of the template creates a pre-populated new issue as in the following figure.
```

> ![This frontmatter, together with the Markdown body text of the template creates a pre-populated new issue.](new-bug-report.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![This front matter, together with the Markdown body text of the template creates a pre-populated new issue.](new-bug-report.png)
```
